---
Layout:
Title:  "Concat on"
Date:   "2022-05-19"
Categories:
---
# introduction
Concat offers a way to add new items to the end of an array without any mutating side effects.
Array.prototype.reduce(), or simply reduce(), is the most general of all array operations in JavaScript. You can solve almost any array processing problem using the reduce method.


# body
The callback function accepts four arguments. The first argument is known as the accumulator, which gets assigned the return value of the callback function from the previous iteration, the second is the current element being processed, the third is the index of that element and the fourth is the array upon which reduce is called.offers a way to add new items to the end of an array without any mutating side effects.
Array.prototype.reduce(), or simply reduce(), is the most general of all array operations in JavaScript. You can solve almost any array processing problem using the reduce method.



In addition to the callback function, reduce has an additional parameter which takes an initial value for the accumulator. If this second parameter is not used, then the first iteration is skipped and the second iteration gets passed the first element of the array as the accumulator.

See below for an example using reduce on the users array to return the sum of all the users' ages. For simplicity, the example only uses the first and second arguments.

const users = [
  { name: 'John', age: 34 },
  { name: 'Amy', age: 20 },
  { name: 'camperCat', age: 10 }
];

const sumOfAges = users.reduce((sum, user) => sum + user.age, 0);
console.log(sumOfAges);
The console would display the value 64.



# conclusion
In another example, see how an object can be returned containing the names of the users as properties with their ages as values.

const users = [
  { name: 'John', age: 34 },
  { name: 'Amy', age: 20 },
  { name: 'camperCat', age: 10 }
];

const usersObj = users.reduce((obj, user) => {
  obj[user.name] = user.age;
  return obj;
}, {});
console.log(usersObj);
The console would display the value { John: 34, Amy: 20, camperCat: 10 }.
