---
Layout:
Title:  "Loops"
Date:   "2022-03-03"
Categories:
---
# introduction
First thing of the day seems to be the kata and todays kata had us use the modulo operator. This asks us to divide
two numbers and return the divisions remainder. We had to figure out a way to do this but make sure that the outcome 
was always strictly equal to 0. This was hard to figure at the beginning as we thought we were to divide.
Then I raced on to check out loops and wow, what trickery is this I thought.


# body
Loops allow us to run the same code multiple times. With this we met the "While loop" and says while a certain condition is true 
run the code over and over again until it becomes false then stop. 
const ourArray = [];
    let i = o;
    while( i < 5 ) {
        ourArray.push(i);
        i++;}
This loop will run 5 times adding the numbers ( 0 - 4 ) to ourArray as long a the condition is true. 
The most common loop though is the "for loop" as it runs for a specified 
number of times. The "for loop" is declared with three optional expressions seperated by semi-colons: for(a ;b ;c ) , a is the initialization 
statement, b is the condition statement and c is the final expression which increments or decrements. The initialization statement is run once 
before the loop starts, and is there to define and setup the loop variable. The condition statement then evaluated at the start of every loops 
iteration, and it continues to do so as long as the condition holds true. Should the statement be false at the beginning of an iteration then 
the loop stops. The final expression runs at the end of each loop iteration, before the start of the next condition check and is used just to 
increment or decrement the loop counter. 
const ourArray = [];
    for(let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
        ourArray.push(i)}
With this loop we initialize i to 0, then run the loop for as long as our condition is true, and we increment i by 1 with each iteration.
The next type of loop is called a "do...while" loop. This loop will first do one pass of the code inside 
the the loop no matter what and will continue running through loop while the said condition holds true.
const ourArray = [];
    let i = 0;
    do { 
        ourArray.push(i);
        i++;}
    while(i < 5);
This loop will run the first iteration and then check the condition at the end of that run, if the condition is still true then it iterates 
until the condition is false.



# conclusion
The common use of loops in javascript is going through the contents of arrays, multidimensional arrays, adding summation of numbers, repitition of functions, and a great deal more. Two main categories of using loops is producing outputs and searching for information. 